>> Mike North: Let's think about what we
can do with these stateful components and
channel it toward enhancing
our app a little bit.
So let me go through the instructions,
and I'm gonna take you to the code and
show you what's been added to the picture.
It's gonna look like, the last
exercise we've just completed with my
solution in place for
what you've just built.
And your job is gonna be to
go upstream one level and
to address a different
part of the problem now.
So there's a PlaceSearchResultList,
right, that contains,
think of this as the UL that contains all
of the LIs which you just made, right?
You made that component.
And we've got a function now that
kicks off the search process,
given the strength.
So, now we have an input and
we're wiring up a function there, so
we're gonna have to deal
with a function type.
The app owns the process of
calculating those search results.
So that is a job for
the outer component outside this thing.
When that search completes, or in fact,
when any state changes in that app
causing everything to rerender.
This ResultList will rerender,
and that can happen,
as you type a new letter in or it could
happen as we kick off the process for
going to fetch data and now we're in
progress and we might wanna render
something different on the screen for
whether we're in process.
So, I want us to focus on handling
all of those different states.
Whether we have, we haven't kicked search
off yet, or we're currently in progress or
we have some results that we wanna
display using a component that is
very very similar and possibly even
identical to what you just built.
We're gonna see some use
of async/await here.
So, we're gonna lean on that and I'm
gonna explain how async/wait gonna work,
just in case this is new to some people.
But, it is fine to leave this in place.
We're going to outlook in the last
exercise that I'll have you do
because our job is gonna be to
create similar behavior using only
a generator function and
code that we write.
The name of the exercise here
is called autocomplete-2,
if you wanna open it up
in your editor right now.
So, if we open that folder up
>> Mike North: And look at the app,
so there's some additional behavior
here that we were not seeing before.
First off, the app has some state,
this is a proper stateful component and
it's got a result set,
a boolean indicating whether
a search is currently underway.
So this would be like there's
a pending promise that has not yet
resolved, and the current search term.
So when we initialize that state,
type scripts helping us here,
if we were to leave this out,
we would get a complaint saying,
you gotta these are required.
You have to do that or you have to
declare something as optional, right?
So we get type safety there.
Note that we have no props
being passed into the app, so
it's fine for us to use an empty
object as the interface there.
I would in fact prefer and
empty object over any,
can anyone guess why.
>> Mike North: What's
the difference between them?
>> Speaker 2: Cuz then you know you have
nothing.
>> Mike North: Yep, exactly.
So here if I try,
>> Mike North: This is wrong,
it's saying,
you're giving me something I didn't need.
So it is a way,
the shape of an empty object, empty props.
And so now, there's no way for my fellow
developer to put something there,
thinking it's gonna do something.
And maybe they keep going down that wrong
road for a while before they realize, wait
a minute, it's not asking me for anything.
>> Speaker 3: Couldn't they even put any
there, pass something in, and
then actually get it as a prop too?
So then you're not even
using any structures?
>> Mike North: You could and in the code
review you'd say what's with this any?
>> Speaker 3: Exactly,
yeah totally totally.
>> Mike North: In fact here's
something else we could do.
>> Mike North: There's
>> Mike North: I forget whether it's
a typescript configuration or an ES lin.
Option here, but
>> Speaker 3: Just
makes an easy legal.
>> Mike North: Yeah, or
basically like at least make it a warning.
>> Speaker 4: It's a tslint,
a tslint.
>> Mike North: Yep, so
let me try that, do you know what
the name of the rule is by any chance?
>> Speaker 4: No dash
any.
>> Mike North: Great.
Yes, so we would go down here.
And again,
this one else says JSON configuration.
So there you go, no any,
disallows any use of any.
[LAUGH] And at that point now
like here we can actually do it.
Can we do like a 1 here?
Is it gonna let us warn, so
we won't do that because our code is not
tightened up enough yet
where that would even be okay.
But if you're, if you're building like
a library, I mentioned yesterday,
which is an incredibly complicated,
very type heavy project.
There I can totally imagine
that they would say.
Any's are a liability,
wherever they are, that's dangerous.
We forbid it in this code base.
Maybe not the best idea for
an app because the whole point is,
this is supposed to be light and flexible.
Especially if you're migrating
to TypeScript from JavaScript,
that would redline the whole project.
All right, so
let's look at this function here.
Does anyone know what
an async function is?
What's an async function?
>> Speaker 5: Async function.
[CROSSTALK] What?
>> Mike North: Do you know
what it returns?
>> Speaker 5: It doesn't
return a generator.
>> Speaker 6: Uses promises in
a synchronous way?
>> Mike North: Yeah so
you see it returns a promise,
async functions return a promise.
You're almost correct, it is sort of an
abstraction around a generator function.
You can pause the execution in
the same way that you can with
the generator function.
And when we define a function
as async like this, and for
any of your own functions, or in fact,
any function that returns a promise,
it's fair game to put
async in front of it.
Then we can use the await keyword,
and what the await keyword does
is it pauses execution locally
just within that function.
Waits for a promise to resolve and
then completes the assignment with
the resolved value of that promise,
which is really, really cool.
For one,
it lets us do something like this,
which this is unheard of in
the dealing with async code world.
And as of TypeScript 2.5 we can
even have catch here that doesn't
require arguments like this.
So that just dropped earlier this month.
Oops we're not allowed to do that.
>> Mike North: Something
like that would be totally fine.
We can try catch, we don't have to
.catch all of our promises, right?
Async in a way is fantastic.
So just know that this is asynchronous
code that is written very much like
synchronous code.
So if we just focus on this here,
I don't expect that the set state
to cause something to be thrown.
But just normally this would be suspect
right where we're setting inProgress to
true and then inProgress to false
both within the same function.
Well you're thinking like well this
is gonna run really quickly right?
Like why would you flip flop
like within the same function.
Just know, this is an Ajax request here.
Oops, well that's an Ajax request or
fetch.
This is a fetch.
And so it may be a full second before
you actually reach this line here.
So in the same way that the while true
looked funky in our generator function,
this also looks funky, but
we have to remember that we're pausing
execution and
re-entering the function at those awaits.
So hopefully you're
starting to see that this,
a lot of what I'm talking about here seems
conceptionally similar to the generator
functions we were just talking about,
and this is no accident.
Generator functions and
yield are the basis for
the async/await and the way it works.
It's not an accident that most of the time
once a browser launches support for
a generator function, async and
await comes either in the same release or
very shortly thereafter.
>> Mike North: I wanna show you one
last cool thing.
It is just as it’s relates to async and
await.
Hopefully, this is the right
version of Chrome.
>> Mike North: Nope.
Unexpected identifier,
okay let me try something else.
So this here,
>> Mike North: Is
it gonna cooperate with me?
Nope, I have one version
of Chrome open and
it doesn't wanna let me do another one.
>> Mike North: Fine,
I'll kill all the Chromes.
All right, so now we're looking at,
this is the nightly build of
Chrome.
>> Mike North: So
forget all the notifications and
stuff here cuz I'm on the Google homepage.
But I do want you to see.
>> Mike North: I have to use https,
mixed content.
>> Mike North: Fine I'll use something
with improperly set course headers.
>> Mike North: So that,
that was a promise.
Fetch returns a promise that
resolves to a response.
So in this next version of Chrome,
starting with Chrome 62, you can even use
await in your console without having to
wrap it in an async function or anything.
It's almost like you're already inside
the context of a generator function when
you're within your dev tools, right?
I could do something like this, .then
response, it's gonna complain at me about
redefining resp.
>> Mike North: And
that's actually the JSON from my API,
available basically on
the next line of code.
All right when I ask for that variable.
So that's the essence of async and
await, the fact that it lets us write
asynchronous code that returns a promise
almost as if it's asynchronous code.
So feel free to leave this in place, but
just know that you're gonna wanna pass
a string into this search function.
And that will ultimately kick
off the process by which
inProgress and results and
term end up changing.
So if you're gonna wanna basically pass
a function into this component that has
the input, unlike whenever
there's a keystroke or something,
it's gonna trigger a new search which
will do the appropriate rerender.
The place search, yes?
>> Speaker 3: So then with async,
if you call, if you have, if you're
trying to a variable definition and
you call an async method,
they return something.
Does that variable definition type, it's
not a feature or something, it's actually
just gonna be whatever type is returned?
>> Mike North: Can you give me a line of
code to write, cuz it could mean
a couple of different things there?
>> Speaker 3: Definitely so,
if try search returned the response.
>> Mike North: Like
this?
>> Speaker 3: Perfect,
yeah.
>> Mike North: Okay, and
you're saying what is the type of X?
>> Speaker 3: Yes, sir.
>> Mike North: It's a promise.
>> Speaker 3: It is, okay.
>> Mike North: But what about this?
Sorry.
>> Speaker 3: What?
So even if you had returned on line 26
results?
>> Mike North: Line
26.
>> Speaker 3: So
if you'd returned something
that all ready awaited,
would it still be a promise?
>> Mike North: If you returned something
that all ready awaited?
So let's try it.
So try search is type,
what it returns is a promise that
resolves to an array of place details.
In this case,
trySearch did not return anything, but
it returns a promise that resolves
to an array of place details.
So if I add this one back in or
places.
>> Mike North: Something like this,
the type of places is a promise that
resolves to place details, add this.
>> Speaker 3: Cool.
>> Mike North: And now the error here is,
I'm not in the context
of an async function,
and so
it's not gonna be able to pause execution.
But TypeScript is smart enough to know
that basically a way it's gonna cause,
it's gonna make it so
that that promised is resolved and
it's the resolved value that we get back.
>> Speaker 3: Well,
also 25 is not locking.
It's not stopping the code.
>> Mike North: Aside from whacky
stuff such as alert and prompt,
we don't have alert in Windows prompt,
there is no blocking code in JavaScript.
We don't write blocking code.
Like we want our functions to run
in like 12 milliseconds or less,
or we can't really render fast
enough to create smooth apps.
It's not blocking.
Think of this,
remember the case switch statement and
just think of it as like this is one case.
Sorry, I can't highlight it correctly,
but one case does all of the lines above
the selected content, stops where
the selection stops on its left side.
The next case basically does,
goes here and it runs,
finishes the assignment goes over here.
So this should give you a little sneak
peek into where we're eventually gonna go.
Imagine an iterator that
returned promises, and
remember when we fed that
stuff into the .next function?
It completed the assignment.
So imagine if we called iterator.next and
when the promise resolves we put that
resolve value back into the iterator back
into the next function it
completes the assignment.
And then we pull off the next
promise in the chain.
This is how async and await works.
We kind of saw it in action already.
And we are going to
implement our own async and
await using this idea of an iterator,
but promises other thing that controls
how fast we're looping through that
iterable collection of things.
Got it?
>> Speaker 3: Totally.
Thank you.
>> Mike North: Sweet.
Okay, so your job in this challenge,
we're gonna implement this
PlaceSearchResultList.
What I have it doing currently
is logging some stuff out,
I just attempted to make it so
that you use it in its current
form to kind of debug things.
It should just JSON stringify
whatever props you pass it.
The PlaceSearchResultList can remain
a stateless functional component,
and this is where you typically
wanna separate any complicated
rendering from complicated
state management.
So the app's job, it's basically
like you could argue this is what
we would call a container component,
and its job is just sort of
kick off this request and
rerender its children when necessary.
But, it's never gonna cause
itself to rerender, right?
Cuz it has no statefulness in and
out itself, that it depends on.
It's just gonna basically change
any props that it's passing to this
PlaceSearchResultList.
So this is a good pattern to use with
react, that it keeps you from accidentally
double or triple rendering through
manipulating one's own state.
So you separate those concerns,
you either own state, or you render,
you're either a container or
your presentation only.
So implement this PlaceSearchResultList,
and
I can show you what your target looks
like and I'll add it to the slides here.
[SOUND] Sorry, get my terminal,
>> Mike North: What did I change?
I did the tryCatch,
>> Mike North: So you're gonna
start up autocomplete-2, MPM start,
not MPM test and over here,
>> Mike North: When we look at
our browser,
>> Mike North: Now
we should be able to typing
something like coffee,
so note that we have three
situations we can be in,
number one, nothing's been typed yet.
You could use a search term of length 0
to figure out you're in this situation.
Once we type something in,
we're showing results and
those were probably cashed
they came back really fast.
Let's search for something I haven't
searched for yet and you'll see
a currently inProgress indicator.
>> Mike North: Right?
So we saw that we were waiting for
that promise to come back.
So this is the state that we're keeping
track of, this is what our state full
container component's all about, showing
while we don't have results yet, something
in the meantime, or telling the user to
write something in the text box above.
So let's take a half hour for this and
by the end your solution should look and
work something like this.
If you want to, I wouldn't advice you
cheat yourself out of this exercise,
but you could certainly switch
to the solutions branch,
start up the same exercise and
drive it just to see kind of the behavior
that you're aiming for as a goal.
And again, don't worry about
passing those tests exactly,
they depend on that
exact structure of HTML.
But just in concept, you should be able
to show no search term has been entered,
a search is currently underway,
meaning you have a pending promise.
And then finally, here's a list
of results and the components we
just built there's a form of it there
that you can use to render out.